Can you imagine how Adam must have felt when he was introduced to Eve?
Actually, we don't have to imagine how he felt.
We know that he was overwhelmed with appreciation.
And he expressed his appreciation in poetic terms that are recorded in the Bible.
You remember the words,
this is at last,
bone of my bones and flesh of my flesh.
Think about it. Adam and Eve had a perfect marriage.
And together, they formed a perfect family.
Of course, with their disobedience, all of that changed.
Instead of perfection, they were confronted with one another's imperfections.
And in the instant that they separated themselves from Jehovah,
they began to experience stress and anxiety that affected their relationship.
It is a testimony to Jehovah's love and wisdom
that despite imperfections and despite the stress and anxiety that have only intensified in these last days,
the family can still be a source of joy, a place of security and stability.
But for that to happen,
each member of the family must shoulder his load of scriptural responsibility.
In this symposium, we're going to consider husbands, wives,
parents, and children and how each of us can contribute to the joy of the family.
To start, let's address husbands.
If you are a husband, how do you view your wife?
Do you view her as Jehovah does?
Do you view her and feel about her as Adam felt about Eve when he first met her?
In fact, the Bible helps us husbands appreciate that our wives are a gift from Jehovah.
Do you appreciate the gift?
And are you demonstrating your appreciation?
For a few minutes this morning, we're going to consider four ways that we husbands can demonstrate
appreciation for the gift Jehovah has given us. If you're taking notes, here they are.
Number one, it's important that we assign our wives on her.
Number two, we must invest time in our relationship.
Number three, it's important that we confine our romantic interests to our wife.
And number four, we have to be realistic in our expectations.
Let's consider these points one at a time.
A turn please in your Bible to first Peter, chapter three, and we're going to read verse seven.
You husbands, in the same way, continued dwelling with them according to knowledge.
Assign them on her as to a weaker vessel, the feminine one, since they are also errors with you
of the undeserved favor of life, in order for your prayers not to be hindered.
Well, Peter leaves us in no doubt as to who are being addressed.
You husbands, that's you and me. He tells us that we must continue dwelling with our wives
according to knowledge. The footnote in our Bible says showing them consideration
or understanding them. How well do you know your wife? What do you know about her background
her upbringing? You know what makes her happy? Do you know why? You know what's upsetting to her,
what causes anxiety? Do you understand why? See, it's important that we take the time
to get to know our wives because only then can we care for their
physical, emotional, and spiritual needs. And only then can we do what Peter next says in the verse.
And here's our main point. Assign them on her. Assign your wife on her.
And then Peter says as to a weaker vessel. Now, what does Peter mean when he refers to the wife
as a weaker vessel? Do you think he's betraying some chauvinistic leaning? No,
because he's already said, Assign her on her. We could illustrate it this way. Imagine that you
have two bowls, exactly the same sawas, exactly the same capacity. But one is made of wood,
and the other is made of very fine, very expensive porcelain. Both bowls
both with the same capacity. But would you handle both in the same way? No. See,
you recognize that the porcelain is more valuable and more fragile. So you handle it in a different way.
And that's what Peter is telling us about our wives. She is the weaker vessel, the feminine one.
And what way is she weaker? Certainly not intellectually. And certainly not spiritually.
Primarily, in a physical sense, we husbands have an advantage. So we accord our wife on her.
That means we would never get physical with her. And certainly we would never
her on a pretext pretend to honor her in public and then abuse her in some way in private.
See, that would never work, would it? No, we assign her honor at all times.
And here's why. Peter says, they are also heirs with you of the undeserved favor of life.
Husbands and wives are on equal footing before Jehovah in a spiritual sense. Both husbands and
wives must wash their robes and make them white in the blood of the Lamb. Jesus did not die more for
husbands than he did for wives. And both husbands and wives have the hope of everlasting life.
So we remember that if we don't, how does Peter conclude? In order for your prayers not to be hindered.
The point, our dealings with our wife will have a direct impact on our personal relationship with
Jehovah. So assign her on her, value what she does for you and for your family and demonstrate your
appreciation. Our second point, invest time in your relationship. It's so easy, isn't it? For
secular work, theocratic assignments and association with others to rob us a valuable time that should
be spent with our wives. Interestingly, when we were getting to know one another,
courting, we were anxious for one-on-one time. That shouldn't change when we got married.
So buy out the time, set it aside, and stick to it. In that way, you demonstrate your appreciation
for the gift Jehovah has given you. Our third point is highlighted in Proverbs chapter 5.
So turn there with me, please. Proverbs chapter 5 and we'll begin reading in verse 18.
May your own fountain be blessed. And here's the point. And may you rejoice with the wife of your youth.
A loving doe, a graceful mountain goat, let her breasts satisfy you at all times. And then here
again is the point. May you be captivated by her love constantly. What is the point? We must
confine our romantic interests to our wife. There's no other option. We want to rejoice with the wife
of our youth. We want to be captivated by her love. That means avoiding overly close relationships
with other women. And not just physical relationships, texting, video conferencing, telephone calls,
all constitute a relationship. So we're very careful. We set limits and we don't go beyond them.
And confining our romantic interests to our wife includes rejecting sexual fantasies involving
others. The world makes light of such fantasizing. But Jesus helped us to appreciate
it's a very serious matter. Do you recall his words in the sermon on the mount?
Anyone who keeps on looking at a woman so as to have a passion for her has already committed
adultery in his heart. The point, fantasizing is little more than rehearsing. So we reject such fantasies
knowing that they violate Bible counsel, including Jesus' very pointed advice. And they can prevent us
from rejoicing in our wife. Finally, number four. Be realistic in your expectations.
We husbands are not perfect. We know that. Our wives are not perfect. Don't you appreciate it when
your wife smooths over your imperfection and makes you look good? Well, our wives appreciate it when
we do that for them. So be alert for opportunities to do that. In the following dramatization, notice how
the husband rejoices in his wife. I was trying to get caught up on paperwork for the circuit
overseas visit. There was so much to do. You got to be kidding me. Well, you're home early, honey.
I said something was wrong. The kids had left a few things out and I was a bit preoccupied.
The tough day? You were supposed to talk to the girls about this. They're making it a habit.
The more I thought about it though, I realized it wasn't just a kitchen. I guess I was part of the problem.
Or maybe the problem was me. You see, my wife is an amazing woman. I'm so loving. It would be an
understatement to call her industrious. And then there's her infectious joy. I mean, how could I not love
her? But sometimes it takes more than saying I love you. You know, honey, you're right. This is
completely unacceptable. I'll talk to the girls as soon as they come through that door.
Thank you. I love you. I love you too. Did you notice how the husband in the video rejoiced in his wife?
He reflected on her many good works. Her devotion to Jehovah, the good act that she performed for
others, her fine work in behalf of her family, her spontaneous joy that made her even more beautiful
to him. And as he reflected on all of those fine things, what happened? His appreciation for his
gift, deepened, and he was motivated to do something about it. That's a beautiful example for us.
So, rejoice in your wife by assigning her honor, by investing time in your relationship,
by confining your romantic interests to your wife, and by being realistic in your expectations.
If you do, your marriage and your family will continue to be a source of joy,
a place of stability, and a place of security. Brother Patrick LaFranca, a helper to the
personnel committee of the governing body, will now present the next talk of the symposium.
Cultivate joy in your family. Wives, rejoice in your husband.